Add education FAQ page (#340)
posit-dev/positron-docs: education.qmd

---
title: "Positron for Education"
description: "Bring Positron to your classroom with a free teaching license."
---
## A true multi-language IDE for data science for all

With Positron, students get access to a robust data science IDE with features designed to support learning and productivity, including:

- Rich Python and R support

> - A built-in **Data Explorer** and **Variables** pane
> - An integrated **Help** pane, debugger, and version control
> - A professional IDE tailored for data science
> - Optional AI assistance for pair programming and debugging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A professional IDE tailored for data science
- Rich Python and R support
- A built-in **Data Explorer** and **Variables** pane
- An integrated **Help** pane, debugger, and version control
- Optional AI assistance for pair programming and debugging
```

Explore the full list of [Positron features](features.qmd).

## How can I use Positron in an educational setting?

* Under the [Positron Elastic license](licensing.qmd), individuals may install and use Positron Desktop for any purpose.

> * Qualified academic institutions can host Positron as a service in the following ways. All of them require an [Academic License Rider](licensing.qmd#positron-education-license-rider).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Qualified academic institutions can host Positron as a service in the following ways. All of them require a [license](licensing.qmd#positron-education-license-rider).
```

    * [Positron Server for Jupyter](https://posit-dev.github.io/jupyter-positron-server/)
    * [Posit Workbench for Education](https://posit.co/pricing/academic#we-help-educators)

::: {.callout-note}
## We are here to help

[Book a call with us](https://scheduler.zoom.us/cindy-tong/positron-education).

Reach out via a discussion in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/posit-dev/positron/discussions).

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Book a call with us](https://scheduler.zoom.us/cindy-tong/positron-education) or reach out via a discussion in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/posit-dev/positron/discussions).
:::
```

## Eligibility for teaching licenses

Academic institutions can use Positron Server or Positron on Workbench with a free teaching license. Full eligibility details are in the Positron [Academic License Rider](licensing.qmd#positron-education-license-rider).

## Applying for a teaching license

1. **Check eligibility.** Review the [Positron Education License Rider](licensing.qmd#positron-education-license-rider) to confirm qualification for a teaching license.

2. **Request a license.** Send an email to [academic-licenses@posit.co](mailto:academic-licenses@posit.co) to get a free teaching license key.

> 3. **Install instructions.** Based on the distribution method, follow the instructions below to get Positron up and running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Install instructions.** Follow the instructions for your installation method to get Positron up and running. For example, for installing Positron on JupyterHub:
  - See the [`jupyter-positron-server` documentation](https://posit-dev.github.io/jupyter-positron-server/) to complete setup.
  - Watch the [installation walkthrough](https://www.loom.com/share/9a8c760a4d4e45b2ac78d62ba3e1d0b3) for a step-by-step guide.
```

## Installing Positron Server
1. Follow the [`jupyter-positron-server` documentation](https://posit-dev.github.io/jupyter-positron-server/) to complete setup.

> 2. Watch the [installation walkthrough](https://www.loom.com/share/9a8c760a4d4e45b2ac78d62ba3e1d0b3) for a step-by-step guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Frequently asked questions

#### How much does a teaching license cost?

Teaching licenses are free for qualified academic institutions.

#### Does a teaching license cover both Positron Server and Positron on Workbench?

Yes, with a teaching license you can choose multiple distribution options, including Positron Server and Positron on Workbench.

#### Can I use a teaching license for research purposes?

No, the teaching license is only for instructional use. If you are interested in using Positron for research, you can use Positron Desktop or purchase a discounted research license. [Learn more about research licenses](https://posit.co/pricing/academic#we-help-educators).

#### Does the license expire at the end of the semester?

> The license lasts for 12 months from the desired start date you indicate when applying. Please note, we process licenses up to a maximum of two months prior to the start of a semester.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The license lasts for 12 months from the desired start date you indicate when applying. Please note, we only process licenses within two months before the start of a semester.
```

This is better, I think?! Or what else might be clearer?

> #### Can I disable specific extensions for all students?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Can I disable specific extensions for all students on JupyterHub?
```

> An admin can configure settings in the machine-level settings file, available at a path like ``/home/jupyter-admin/.positron-server/data/Machine/settings.json``. You can use the [`extensions.allowed` setting](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/enterprise/extensions#_configure-allowed-extensions) to approve or deny extensions for all users on your JupyterHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An admin can configure settings in the machine-level settings file, available at a path like ``/home/jupyter-admin/.positron-server/data/Machine/settings.json``. You can use the [`extensions.allowed` setting](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/enterprise/extensions#_configure-allowed-extensions) to approve or deny extensions for all users on your JupyterHub server.
```

#### How do I upgrade Positron Server to the latest version?

Install the latest version of Positron to the same location.

#### Can I pre-configure a default environment (specific packages, files, settings) so all students start from the same place?

> Positron can locate conda environments as well as any files on a user’s JupyterHub instance, so packages and files in shared locations are automatically available. An admin can configure settings in the machine-level settings file, available at a path like ``/home/jupyter-admin/.positron-server/data/Machine/settings.json``.

Reviewer: Why are we calling out conda here?! Is this on purpose? Does JupyterHub need conda? Can we say something like "Python environments" intead?

Reviewer 2: fwiw The Littlest JupyterHub is set up using conda by default. I'd say it's common to use JH + conda, but not _necessary_

---
title: "Positron for Education"
description: "Bring Positron to your classroom with a free teaching license."
---

> ## Why Use Positron in the Classroom?

Reviewer: Can you run the `doc-reviewer` Claude skill on this PR? We need to use it for compliance with the style guide i.e. using sentence case for headings.

Author: Thank you! I downloaded this plugin https://github.com/posit-dev/doc-reviewer

With Positron, students get access to a robust data science IDE with features designed to support learning and productivity, including:

- Rich Python and R support

> - A built-in data viewer and variables explorer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A built-in Data Explorer and Variables pane
```

Add links?

> - An integrated help pane, debugger, and version control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An integrated Help pane, debugger, and version control
```

The `doc-reviewer` skill should get the capitalization right for all of these hopefully.

- A professional IDE tailored for data science
- Optional AI assistance for pair programming and debugging

Explore the full list of [Positron features](features.qmd).

## How can I use Positron in an educational setting?

> * Under the [Positron Elastic license](licensing.qmd), individual students are free to install and use the software for any purpose.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Under the [Positron Elastic license](licensing.qmd), individuals may install and use Positron for any purpose.
```

okay, one more nit here since we're getting so many requests on research

> * Qualified academic institutions may host Positron as a service for their currently enrolled students solely for educational purposes in connection with their coursework via a free teaching license. Eligibility conditions are outlined in Positron’s [Academic License Rider](licensing.qmd#positron-education-license-rider).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Qualified academic institutions may host Positron as a service, via Positron Server, for their currently enrolled students solely for educational purposes in connection with their coursework via a free teaching license. Eligibility conditions are outlined in Positron’s [Academic License Rider](licensing.qmd#positron-education-license-rider).
```

Not sure if this is quite right, but trying to explicitly state to users the connection between this and the following bullet points

* Positron Server is available for JupyterHub environments. See the [jupyter-positron-server](https://posit-dev.github.io/jupyter-positron-server/) Python package documentation for more information about setup and usage.
* Hosting of Positron for teaching purposes requires a free license key. Please reach out to [academic-licenses@posit.co](mailto:academic-licenses@posit.co) and indicate your interest in Positron if you have further questions.
* Lastly, Posit provides free teaching licenses of Posit Workbench, which includes Positron Pro and RStudio for browser-based access by multiple users. Visit [Posit Workbench for Education](https://posit.co/pricing/academic#we-help-educators) to learn more.

::: {.callout-tip}
## We're here to help

[Book a call with us](https://scheduler.zoom.us/cindy-tong/positron-education)

> Reach out via a discussion in our [Positron GitHub repository](https://github.com/posit-dev/positron/discussions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reach out via a discussion in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/posit-dev/positron/discussions)
```

2. Watch the [installation walkthrough](https://www.loom.com/share/9a8c760a4d4e45b2ac78d62ba3e1d0b3) for a step-by-step guide.

## Frequently Asked Questions

#### How much does a teaching license cost?

Teaching licenses are free for qualified academic institutions.

#### Does a teaching license cover both Positron Server and Positron on Posit Workbench?

Yes, with a teaching license you can choose multiple distribution options, including Positron Server and Positron on Posit Workbench.

#### Can I use a teaching license for research purposes?

No, the teaching license is only for instructional use. If you're interested in using Positron for research, you can use Positron Desktop or purchase a discounted research license. [Learn more about research licenses](https://posit.co/pricing/academic#we-help-educators).

#### Does the license expire at the end of the semester?

The license lasts for 12 months from the desired start date you indicate when applying. Please note, we process licenses up to a maximum of two months prior to the start of a semester.

#### Can I disable specific extensions for all students?

> Settings can be configured by an admin at the ``/home/jupyter-admin/.positron-server/data/Machine/settings.json`` file. You can use the extensions.allowed setting, read more [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/enterprise/extensions#_configure-allowed-extensions)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Settings can be configured by an admin by using the machine level settings file, available at a path like ``/home/jupyter-admin/.positron-server/data/Machine/settings.json``. You can use the [`extensions.allowed` setting](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/enterprise/extensions#_configure-allowed-extensions) to approve or deny extensions for all users on your JupyterHub
```

Slightly more accessible hyperlink, and a nod that the path may be different depending on configuration

#### How do I upgrade Positron Server to the latest version?

Install the latest version of Positron to the same location.

#### Can I pre-configure a default environment (specific packages, files, settings) so all students start from the same place?

> Positron can locate conda environments as well as any files on a user’s JupyterHub instance, so packages and files in shared locations are automatically available. Settings can be configured by an admin at the ``/home/jupyter-admin/.positron-server/data/Machine/settings.json`` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Positron can locate conda environments as well as any files on a user’s JupyterHub instance, so packages and files in shared locations are automatically available. Settings can be configured by an admin at machine level settings file, available at a path like ``/home/jupyter-admin/.positron-server/data/Machine/settings.json``.
```
